---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-05-3
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - E5
  - Assignments
---

## 1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
In <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html">Assignment 2</a>, we added more to our e-commerce store to make it more "complex". In Assignment 1, we focused on making the website for our products and designing it to be aesthetically pleasing. In this Assignment 2 however, we personalized our website for each of our users. We were tasked to direct the user to a Login page once they selected how much they wanted to purchase. If they did not have a registered account, the user can click the registration link below the password textbox to direct them to the registration page. After they create an account and/or logged in, the user receives an invoice of their purchase.  

## 2. What did you learn from this assignment?
I feel that the hardest part was having the correct page sequence. I was required to have my products display directed to my login page. Then, I had to direct my login page to two different paths: either the registration page and then to invoice or straight to invoice after login. I had the hardest time trying to get my login go to invoice. I believe it had to do with my params being written incorrectly or that my codes aren't in the correct order. A lot more code was added into my server.js, even with comments, I could kind of overwhelmed trying to scroll through it all and reorganizing. 

## 3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
I did not work on the project with a partner, but I did receive feedback and help on my Assignment 2 from a friend.

## 4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
As mentioned above, I received assistance with my Assignment 2 from my friend. They helped check my code for the mistakes that didn't allow my page to redirect properly. As for reorganizing my code in the correct order, I referred to Dan Port's assignment that was in his repo. I had code that was overlapping, so I checked with his code to make sure I got the ones that worked. 

## 5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
This assigment was different in terms of their objective. Assignment 1 was more designed-focused where we designed our e-commerce store and allowed users to make a purchase. In Assignment 2, we upgraded our website to be more personalized by having the users create an account to login to the store to track their purchases. Developing this time assignment also took more time than Assignment 1, since there was a few stuff we needed to add to it that we haven't learned. For example, my IR was ecryption and I was not familiar with it. I had to utilize ChatGPT since I did not know how "salt" and "hash" was. 

## 6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
100% of the time I did the project, I would say......
* 45% thinking about how to do something
* 20% writing code
* 35% testing and debugging

## 7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
For sure, I am satisfied with my design for the login and registration page. It is a big upgrade from index, store, and invoice pages since back then, I did not have much creativity to make it look nice. As for how well it worked, I think I did better with my login page than my registration. I didn't have proper validation for my registration, therefore, I was still able to get to invoice by putting random letters with no @zzz.com. But with my login, it prevented me from logging when I put something wrong or if I do not have an account registered. 

## 8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
If I could go back in time, I wish I put my more in doing my validations. Time management was again a problem, and even worse since this assignment was due one-two weeks before finals. If I only focused on this subject, I could have had a lot more time to make it better than how it currently is. 
